# WebAssembly Compiler Development Progress #2019-06-22#

For make sure the compiler

The source code of the compiler have been move to a new repository: [dotvanilla/vanilla](https://github.com/dotvanilla/vanilla).

VanillaVB is a compiler project that target WebAssembly platform. And it is build upon the [Roslyn](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn) compiler services, so you can write your WebAssembly application in VisualStudio use VisualBasic.NET language and then compile to WebAssembly by use ``Vanilla``.


VanillaVB is design for provides an compiler platform and javascript runtime environment for writing a data computing program in webbrowser or nodejs environment.

## Development Progress

Here is the current work progress of vanilla compiler:

#### 1. Enable you compile a VisualBasic project 

You can write you application code and config the assembly information, assembly compile output location, etc in VisualStudio

A VisualBasic.NET webassembly project is mainly consist of multiple Module source files, as the WebAssembly is mainly design for numeric computing, so you VB

Currently the CPU platform config is not yet supported. And ``X86`` will map to ``Wasm32`` and ``X64`` will map to ``Wasm64`` in the feature development works.

Here is a quick guidance about compile your VB project by ``vanilla``:

> [https://vanillavb.app/#use_compiler](#use_compiler)

#### 2. ``Array`` and ``List(Of T)`` supported 

Array is a kind of fixed length memory block in WebAssembly runtime memory and List(Of T) is a kind of array object in javascript runtime.

Here is the development note about Array implementation:

> [https://vanillavb.app/#array_impl](#array_impl)

#### 3. Flow control structure supported

Supportes: For Loop, While Loop, Until Loop, If Else. 
> Note: currently ``For Each`` loop is not yet supported.

#### 4. ``Class`` and ``Structure`` supported 

``Class`` and ``Structure`` is designed for different purpose. ``Class`` is mainly design for data computing in WebAssembly runtime, and ``Structure`` is mainly design for exchange data between WebAssembly runtime and javascript runtime. About the class/structure implementation in WebAssembly, you can read this development note: [Class implementation in WebAssembly](#class_impl)

> Currently ``Class`` and ``Structure`` only supports fields. The member property, instance member method/function and constructor function is not yet supported.

#### 5. Enum, String, primitive data types

Currently vanilla compiler supports the 4 primitive numeric data type in webAssembly, and the ``Enum`` is a kind of alias name of ``Integer/Long`` is also well supported. The ``Boolean`` is supported as the ``Boolean`` type is a kind of alias of ``Integer`` type. ``String`` and ``Char`` is also supported, but they are the same, as ``Char`` and ``String`` is the same in javascript runtime.

> In .NET Framework, the ``String`` is a kind of Object, it has some instance member property and method functions. These instance member property and methods is not yet supported in vanilla compiler, so which it means the ``String`` just a kind of data, not an object like it in .NET environment currently.

#### 6. &lt;Extension> method supported

``Vanilla`` is not yet supportes custom attribute and reflection operation. But with some tricks, the ``<Extension>`` method works currently in ``vanilla`` compiler. 

> Some of the useful attribute in [System.Runtime.CompilerServices Namespace](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.runtime.compilerservices?view=netframework-4.8) like ``<CallerMemberName>`` and ``<CallerLineNumber>`` will be supported in feature work, these attribute is helpful in debuging your WebAssembly application.

#### 7. Try Catch and Exception is not supported

As the exception handler is not supported in WebAssembly currently.

## Community Works

**One man's power is small and limited.** As I struggling at company R&amp;D job, and the development of ``Vanilla`` is limited at my free time. So I'm not able to keeps a very frequency update on vanilla compiler project. Here I'm seeking for the community help: If you want to make contribution on this WebAssembly compiler works for VisualBasic.NET language, please let me know. I can invite you to join the [dotvanilla](https://github.com/dotvanilla) as a project member.